[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> In this episode, we
continue with our examination
of the Yuga Cycles and history.
Looking back at the tetractys,
each one of these dots
then equals the
duration of 6,048 years.
Multiplied by 10, we
see the entire mahakalpa
has a value of 60,480 years.
So let's look at why
we have the Yuga system
as the inverted tetractys.
The first age is the
Golden Age, and has
a duration of four Yugas,
which is 24,192 years.
The second age, is
called the Silver Age,
is a duration of three
Yugas, which is 18,144 years.
The Copper or Bronze
Age had a duration
of to Yugas, which
is 12,096 years.
And the age that we are
in now, the Kali Yuga,
has the duration of 1 Yuga--
6,048 years.
With the declining of the
number of Yugas per age,
our perception of
time also diminishes.
The sense of time
in the Golden Age
was experienced as
a much longer time
because everyone born into
an age is a part of that age.
It's like the
wonder of childhood.
Every one of us can remember how
time was so much bigger and so
much longer when
we were children.
That is true of tribal men and
earlier indigenous cultures.
They don't feel the pressure and
anxiety of a shortage of time.
But in the Kali Yuga, we do have
a sense of a shortage of time,
because we are all the
children of Mahakali,
who states, "I created
all these worlds,
and I tend to destroy them."
We live with that sense,
whether we know it or not,
because we are
part of an age that
brings about the ending
of a great process
of human development.
We should think about this
in sort of an embryology.
We are part of the birth
giving of the anthropocosm.
This means that humanity is,
and is aware, and is conscious,
of the universe.
We are just one stage in
the birth of that being--
the anthropocosm.
This is not evolution, as
this growth is cyclical.
It's not the nature of laws
of adaptation and struggle
and survival.
It's the laws inherent in
the intention of the creation
of a time-space universe.
It's there from the
beginning, and it is ours
if we can see it to its final
and glorious conclusion.
Right now, we are
in the Kali Yuga.
The Puranas were some of the
most ancient texts from India.
They tell us that each
Yuga is preceded by a phase
that they call the dawn.
And it is concluded by a
phase they call the twilight.
Just like the birth
of a day or a year,
all cycles are simply an
expansion of the same cycle.
And they are all interdependent
on a cycle of the Earth, which
is 365 days.
We will come to
connect the duration
of the journey of the
Earth around the Sun
to this larger cycle.
Just like the
cycle of the Earth,
it manifests in this
triangular triad of dawn.
First is the central
region of time.
Next is the body of
the day or night.
And finally, twilight.
It is that constant
progression-- dawn, Yuga,
twilight, dawn, Yuga,
twilight-- which
takes us from Yuga to
Yuga and age to age.
Here we come to very
interesting variations
on our basic number of 6,048.
The Puranas specify
that the Yuga
is divided into 10
units, each one having
a particular
accomplishment in terms
of the process of the
unfolding of the divinity
into this materialization.
The durations of the dawn
and twilight are 504 years.
There are 10 of
these, which give us
a Yuga of 5,040
years, with a dawn 504
years and a twilight 504
years, with a total of 6,048.
504 for dawn, 5,040 as
a duration of the Yuga,
504 for Twilight,
and 6,048 in total.
This is very important for
us to know because these are
divisions within historic time.
All the Yuga are the
same, except they
come in different multiples
to form the ages--
to form the four
great ages of man.
Our modern Gregorian
calendar may
have been created by someone
who was conscious or aware
of the Yuga dates.
Because of the synchronicity
with the Yuga system,
our calendar became
consistently parallel
with the Hindu calendar.
Both our calendar and the
ancient Indian calendar
denote the beginning of
the Kali Yuga in 3102 BC.
This is the beginning of the
last Yuga of a 60,000 year
cycle.
Mathematically, we can locate
the dawn of that cycle.
Simply add 504 four years
before 3102, which is 3606 BC.
When did we go into the
twilight of our age?
That day came in
roughly 1938 to 1939.
That is when the formulas
for the nuclear bomb
were finalized.
That's when Hitler
moved into Poland
and provoke the
Second World War.
There are numerous
historic events
which happened in the beginning
of the shadow of twilight.
From this point on, we descend
to the finality of the Kali
Yuga we can see that the dawn of
the Kali Yuga began in 3606 BC,
and the very end of the
twilight of the Kali Yuga
will end in 2442 AD.
We can utilize these dates to
describe different events which
go right down to the duration
of the multiples of 7,
which are the key fundamental
of the Yuga system.
Now let's look at another
series of numbers.
1 times 2 times 3 times 4 times
5 times 6 times 7 equals 5,040.
7 times 8 times 9 times
10 also equals 5,040.
In other words, 7
is the very heart
of the generation
of the Yuga number.
Is that a fortuitous
circumstance,
or is that the fact that
the number is an aspect
of the nature of time?
Hindu philosophy considered time
to be the mind of the universe.
It is the aspect of
the universe that
carries clear and
exact numeric values
and descriptive durations.
Coming back to historical
events related to the Yuga,
if we add 7 to 1938,
we get 1945, when
they dropped the atomic bomb.
It's the same year
the United Nations was
founded as a one world order.
Seven years later, 1952 was
the date they began research
into biological weapons.
It was Eisenhower who wanted
a large amount of money
spent on biological weapons.
We start to see the continuous
shadow of the decomposing
functions of the Yuga.
These shadows of
human history are
aspects of the nature of
time and the necessity
of having a continuous creation
that experiences birth, death,
and rebirth.
We'll come back to
tetractys diagram
because it is the archetype
of not only time but space.
This is why the tetractys
was the great teaching
tool of the entire
Pythagorean legacy.
Pythagoras called
it a sacred diagram,
and that it is a
permanent representation
of the factuality of creation.
Pythagoras, unlike
Plato and Aristotle,
was not an equational thinker.
He was a proportional thinker.
He saw one thing as in
relation to another,
in the same or similar
way that something else is
in relationship
to another thing.
That's what we call
proportional thinking.
The circle of time of the Yugas
implies the differentiation
of our reality into four
aspects or qualities.
We are going to run through some
of the characteristics of each
of the four ages and
align them with some
of the most basic ways that we
define our individual being.
Four ways of individuation
are the four stages of life.
Childhood, adolescence,
adulthood, and old age.
Each age is equal
to a stage of life
within each living organism.
In organized civilizations,
there are four castes.
People are cast by their
vocational aptitudes,
and those four castes are the
priests and scholars, which
are called Brahmins; the
royalty, the kings and princes,
called the Kshatriya; the
merchants and bankers, known
as the Vaishyas; and
the fourth, the Shudra,
which is the working class.
The people who manipulate,
successfully and creatively,
the material world.
The Shudra is, of course,
the largest caste.
But each caste
dominates during an age.
Each stage of life is a
dominant stage during the four
ages of the Yugas.
There are also four forms
of sexual expression.
We have the feminine-feminine,
the masculine-masculine,
the masculine
within the feminine,
and the feminine
within the masculine.
The variations become dominant
principles in successive ages.
There are also four
major cultures.
There's the nomadic hunter and
gatherer, the nomadic herding
people, horticultural people,
and, finally, the urban settled
populations, which
incorporate and control
all of the other attributes.
For the most part, each
one of us as an individual
is, and has to participate, in
each one of these categories
of identity.
The four ages, or
Yugas, are also
similar to the four
seasons of the year.
We can start with the first
culture, the first age,
the Golden Age, the longest age.
This is the springtime
of our species.
The cultural form at
that time is nomadic
hunting and gathering.
This is really the golden
age of our physicality
and our intelligence.
Time itself was slower.
Days and years stretched
forever in the Golden Age.
Because the earth and soil
were filled with minerals,
the plants that humans ate
had much higher amounts
of natural vitamins, nutritional
substances, and amino acids
than the plants we
eat today, which
need chemicals and genetic
processing to grow.
Of all the cultures
on Earth today,
one of the closest to the
hunter-gatherer cultures
of the Golden Age are the
Aborigines of Australia.
Robert Lawlor did an
intensive investigation
into that culture, which
resulted in his classic book,
"Voices of the First Day."
Australian Aborigines
have incredible linguistic
capabilities.
They had knowledge and memory
of thousands of species.
They memorized their relatives
and ancestors all the way back
for many generations.
They had a sensing of where
they were in time and space
at every moment that we
do not possess anymore.
In terms of the
intelligence that
nurtures the independence
of the physical organism,
that is the Golden Age of man.
We have an intelligence
that breeds
dependency of our physical
being and manifestation.
The golden age was
when mankind was
free in a world where
they respected the earth
and wandered freely.
They fulfilled more
than any cultural form.
That is the reason why the Earth
was created in the first place.
The Gnostic myths
of Sophia tell us
that Sophia was a
formative energy force
from the center of the galaxy.
She, on her own
volition, decided
to sacrifice her
being as a force
in order to become
a habitat, a womb,
for a creature who would
be able to observe,
to perceive, and conceive
the wonders of the universe
that we're being produced
in the mind of the all.
That culture is the
indigenous free culture,
because they constantly
wandered around
in the unfettered, undisturbed
beauty of the natural world,
and learned everything through
their perception of creation.
The sexualities in the golden
age are feminine-feminine.
Not the emphasis of the feminine
within the masculine, which
is what dominates the priest
caste the third age, the Copper
Age, nor the masculine
within the feminine, which
dominates the urban world of the
modern age, or the Kali Yuga.
The Golden Age was
a casteless society.
But of the castes
as we know them,
they represented the Shudra.
That was the age where
the people of the Earth--
and of the hand-- dominated.
This is the age where we learned
symbolism, sacred geometry,
and the physical
emphasis of the universe.
The tribal form predominated.
In the later ages,
the Shudra would
have to be captured to be drawn
into the hierarchical system
of cities.
We'll put the second
age, the Silver Age,
at the opposite pole
in terms of caste.
The aristocracy of the
four castes, the royalty,
ruled the second
Yuga, the Silver Age.
This was the age in which
they invented kingship,
and the age where such values as
honor and courage were kindled.
The aristocracy,
especially in Egypt,
with the invention of
the king and queen,
represented the highest
evolution of the people
at that time.
And they had the responsibility
for the continuation of memory.
That's what the kings
and the pharaohs were.
They were the guardians
of the truth of history,
and protectors of the behavior
and ethics of a culture.
They carried the ka from
one generation to another.
The ka is an aspect of the
soul in Egyptian mythology.
We will describe the
ka in greater detail
in later episodes
of this series.
The sexuality of this age
would be masculine-masculine.
Of the four cultures,
it would also
be the beginning of
the agricultural phase.
The eating of naturally
produced foods was ending,
and now humans were no longer
free to wander the earth.
Now the earth had to be tilled.
Man was turned from
a hunter to a farmer.
It's recorded in the Puranas
that when the second age came
to end, the aristocracy
had become so degenerate
that the Brahmins,
the priest class,
murdered the complete
aristocratic caste.
Only a very few royal
bloodlines escaped,
and this is how the priest
took control in the third age.
That would be the
Copper or Bronze Age.
The sexuality of
the priesthood class
is the feminine
within the masculine.
The priest dominated
the entire third age.
Egypt and India both
went through this phase.
This genocide is clearly
marked in Hindu texts,
when the priest caste, through
poisoning and subterfuge,
got rid of the kings.
Plato said that
in the second age
there was a three-caste society.
But the merchants split off from
the Shudras in the second day
when they started kingdoms.
The Shudra owned the Golden Age.
The aristocracy
led the second age.
The priests and scholars
had the third age.
In the fourth age, we
find ourselves dominated
by the mercantile class.
In the Iron Age, we are actually
in the old age of culture.
The decrepitness and
dependency that we
have nurtured through
consumerism is self-evident.
This is what happens as we age.
We become more and more
dependent upon devices
to aid us as our health fails.
In the Golden Age,
time seems forever.
Whereas in the Iron
Age, in the Kali Yuga,
time seems to be speeding up.
Every second seems
shorter than the last one.
Days and nights fly by.
And a lifetime feels
like a mere moment.
Corporatism is the
merchant class gone wild.
The Iron Age is dominated
by the Vaishyas--
the merchant caste.
In terms of seasons,
spring is the Golden Age,
summer is the Silver
Age, fall the Copper Age,
and the winter is the Iron Age.
Within each age, each
one of the castes
has a period of strength.
The whole cycle of
four repeats itself
within each of the four castes,
cultures, and sexuality.
The cultural essence
of the Kali Yuga
has taken place
in America, where
they have turned everything,
every aspect of life,
into a commodity.
Even water is sold
as a commodity.
It's almost like a
ritual sacrifice,
where the species is
given all the material
gifts and advantages that once
was held by the aristocracy
through the means of commerce.
The people, the Shudra,
can accumulate more wealth
than all of the kings and
princes held in previous ages.
That's what was in the
prophecies concerning the Kali
Yuga, where the poor want to
sleep in the beds of princes.
The Vaishya, the merchants,
with the excesses of commerce,
provides the sacrificial
ritual component
of the end of the age.
He who is to be
sacrificed is to be
raised to the level of a king.
Also, it consumes itself.
That can only happen
through the Vaishya,
through the domination of
the world by corporations,
that the organism has to consume
itself at the end of the cycle.
The sexuality of the Iron Age is
masculine inside the feminine.
The whole business world
has caused the feminization
of the masculine, and is
actually a feminine force
that dominates it,
because our world now
is one of protection
and security overall.
Fear of death and overpopulation
are the attributes of this.
In other words, we are
looking at a collection
of archetypal
characteristics associated
with femininity because it's
not really the manifest form.
It's the archetypal form.
The archetypal feminine
is being served,
and the masculine has
been absorbed within it.
This is why a concern for the
material world and for safety
are what concerns
our age the most.
Remember, we mentioned that
we have been conditioned
into a language based on an
egalitarian or equivalency
pattern, which keeps our
thinking on a linear basis.
We just go from 2
plus 3 equals 5.
We ignore that each one of the
numerical symbols that we've
utilized for this are
not mere quantities.
There are concepts,
which imply imagery,
which imply philosophical
ideas like duality, trinity,
and so forth.
We are trying to
shift our thinking
in this discussion of the
proportional system that
is embedded in the
very nature of time.
To fully derive value
from this exercise,
we want to also try to
stretch our thinking so
that it is multi-layered.
For example, to reveal this
connection between mathematics
and mythology, we can go to
a number of the Yuga, 6,048,
and we find that the square
root of this number is 77.77.
Now, this is a perfect example
of how a quantity begins
to expand into astronomy and
the movement of the Earth
into the symbolic code that's
embedded in the simplest series
of a succession of numbers.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
It's four sevens.
And this number
embodies four ages.
As you learn to look for
layers in our evaluation
of simple quantities, we
will be able to uncover
more and more of
the symbolism that
is held in the Yuga system.
[MUSIC PLAYING]